developer-docs/installation/delete_keycloak_users.md, before:

---
title: Script to delete users stored in Keycloak
page_title: Script to delete users stored in Keycloak
description: Script to delete users stored in Keycloak
published: true
allowSearch: true
---

## Overview
In Keycloak, earlier the users data were stored in plain format and was vulnerable, With new changes Keycloak would point to sunbird to get user details. Users stored in Keycloak are obsolete and hence needs to be deleted. This migration scripts loads all the user from cassandra, and make a delete user call to keycloak one after another skipping the admin users.

## Prerequisites

To run the migration script, ensure you have:

1. Access to cassandra database
2. A csv file with all the admin user Ids (without any headers).
3. Access to Keycloak admin user details.
4. Please refer the [Documentation](https://project-sunbird.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/SBDES/pages/1021673496/Keycloak+User+Storage+Federation+Deployment+steps) which requires to run sql queries before running this script.

## Configuration Parameters
The following parameters needs to be passed as arguments for the delete keycloak user migration job

 S.No. | Parameter | Description | Example 
-------|-----------|-------------|---------
1 | sunbird_cassandra_server | Cassandra DB IP Address| 198.168.1.1
2 | sunbird_cassandra_port | Cassandra DB Port Number | 9042 
3 | sunbird_cassandra_username* | Cassandra DB User Name | username 
4 | sunbird_cassandra_password* | Cassandra DB Password | password 
5 | sunbird_cassandra_keyspace  | Cassandra DB Keyspace Name | sunbird 
6 | sunbird_keycloak_admin_username  | Keycloak admin username | admin 
7 | sunbird_keycloak_admin_password  | Keycloak admin password | admin
8 | sunbird_keycloak_base_url  | Keycloak base url | http://localhost:8080/auth
9 | sunbird_keycloak_client_id  | Keycloak client id | admin-cli
10 | sunbird_keycloak_realms  | Keycloak realms | master
11 | sunbird_admin_user_ids  | path to the admin user id csv | /home/user/adminUserIds.csv
12 | dry_run  | if enabled, only report generation and not actual migration happens | true
 

> Note: If authentication is not required, pass `""` for parameters, username, and password

## Migration Script

1. Extract the archive file DeleteKeycloakUserBin.zip.

2. Run the script using below commands (first with dry run option for verification purpose and later without out it perform actual migration).

(dry_run: true)
``` 
sh DeleteKeycloakUser_run.sh --context_param sunbird_cassandra_server="{sunbird_cassandra_server}" --context_param sunbird_cassandra_port="{sunbird_cassandra_port}" --context_param sunbird_cassandra_username="{sunbird_cassandra_username}" --context_param sunbird_cassandra_password="{sunbird_cassandra_password}" --context_param sunbird_cassandra_keyspace="{sunbird_cassandra_keyspace}" --context_param sunbird_keycloak_admin_username="{keycloak_admin_username}" --context_param sunbird_keycloak_admin_password="{keycloak_admin_password}" --context_param sunbird_keycloak_base_url="{keycloak_base_url}" --context_param sunbird_keycloak_client_id="{keycloak_client_id}" --context_param sunbird_keycloak_realms="{keycloak_realms}" --context_param sunbird_admin_user_ids="{admin_userIds_path}" --context_param dry_run=true
```

Verify the records identified to be updated.

(dry_run: false)  
``` 
sh DeleteKeycloakUser_run.sh --context_param sunbird_cassandra_server="{sunbird_cassandra_server}" --context_param sunbird_cassandra_port="{sunbird_cassandra_port}" --context_param sunbird_cassandra_username="{sunbird_cassandra_username}" --context_param sunbird_cassandra_password="{sunbird_cassandra_password}" --context_param sunbird_cassandra_keyspace="{sunbird_cassandra_keyspace}" --context_param sunbird_keycloak_admin_username="{keycloak_admin_username}" --context_param sunbird_keycloak_admin_password="{keycloak_admin_password}" --context_param sunbird_keycloak_base_url="{keycloak_base_url}" --context_param sunbird_keycloak_client_id="{keycloak_client_id}" --context_param sunbird_keycloak_realms="{keycloak_realms}" --context_param sunbird_admin_user_ids="{admin_userIds_path}" --context_param dry_run=false
```

3. The script generates the following logs.

 S.No. | Log File | Description | Example 
-------|-----------|-------------|---------
1 | KeycloakDeleteUserSuccess_timestamp.csv | User Ids which were successfully deleted (This file will be generated only in migration) | KeycloakDeleteUserSuccess_1554113623396.csv
2 | KeycloakDeleteUserFailue_timestamp.csv | User Ids for which deletion failed (This file will be generated only in migration) | KeycloakDeleteUserFailue_1554113623396.csv 
3 | KeycloakUserNotFound.csv | UserIds which were not found in keycloak | KeycloakUserNotFound.csv

Commit message:

details for getting admin user ids from keycloak

developer-docs/installation/delete_keycloak_users.md, after:

---
title: Script to delete users stored in Keycloak
page_title: Script to delete users stored in Keycloak
description: Script to delete users stored in Keycloak
published: true
allowSearch: true
---

## Overview
In Keycloak, earlier the users data were stored in plain format and was vulnerable, With new changes Keycloak would point to sunbird to get user details. Users stored in Keycloak are obsolete and hence needs to be deleted. This migration scripts loads all the user from cassandra, and make a delete user call to keycloak one after another skipping the admin users.

## Prerequisites

To run the migration script, ensure you have:

1. Access to cassandra database
2. A csv file with all the admin user Ids (without any headers).
3. Access to Keycloak admin user details. It can be achieved by running below query in keycloak postgres db, create a csv by copying all user Id, Please note that in case "Download ad csv" option is used, you should remove the double quotes from all userIds.

	SELECT urm.user_id FROM keycloak_role kr, user_role_mapping urm WHERE kr.id=urm.role_id and kr.name='admin';

4. Please refer the [Documentation](https://project-sunbird.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/SBDES/pages/1021673496/Keycloak+User+Storage+Federation+Deployment+steps) which requires to run sql queries before running this script.

## Configuration Parameters
The following parameters needs to be passed as arguments for the delete keycloak user migration job

 S.No. | Parameter | Description | Example 
-------|-----------|-------------|---------
1 | sunbird_cassandra_server | Cassandra DB IP Address| 198.168.1.1
2 | sunbird_cassandra_port | Cassandra DB Port Number | 9042 
3 | sunbird_cassandra_username* | Cassandra DB User Name | username 
4 | sunbird_cassandra_password* | Cassandra DB Password | password 
5 | sunbird_cassandra_keyspace  | Cassandra DB Keyspace Name | sunbird 
6 | sunbird_keycloak_admin_username  | Keycloak admin username | admin 
7 | sunbird_keycloak_admin_password  | Keycloak admin password | admin
8 | sunbird_keycloak_base_url  | Keycloak base url | http://localhost:8080/auth
9 | sunbird_keycloak_client_id  | Keycloak client id | admin-cli
10 | sunbird_keycloak_realms  | Keycloak realms | master
11 | sunbird_admin_user_ids  | path to the admin user id csv | /home/user/adminUserIds.csv
12 | dry_run  | if enabled, only report generation and not actual migration happens | true
 

> Note: If authentication is not required, pass `""` for parameters, username, and password

## Migration Script

1. Extract the archive file DeleteKeycloakUserBin.zip.

2. Run the script using below commands (first with dry run option for verification purpose and later without out it perform actual migration).

(dry_run: true)
``` 
sh DeleteKeycloakUser_run.sh --context_param sunbird_cassandra_server="{sunbird_cassandra_server}" --context_param sunbird_cassandra_port="{sunbird_cassandra_port}" --context_param sunbird_cassandra_username="{sunbird_cassandra_username}" --context_param sunbird_cassandra_password="{sunbird_cassandra_password}" --context_param sunbird_cassandra_keyspace="{sunbird_cassandra_keyspace}" --context_param sunbird_keycloak_admin_username="{keycloak_admin_username}" --context_param sunbird_keycloak_admin_password="{keycloak_admin_password}" --context_param sunbird_keycloak_base_url="{keycloak_base_url}" --context_param sunbird_keycloak_client_id="{keycloak_client_id}" --context_param sunbird_keycloak_realms="{keycloak_realms}" --context_param sunbird_admin_user_ids="{admin_userIds_path}" --context_param dry_run=true
```

Verify the records identified to be updated.

(dry_run: false)  
``` 
sh DeleteKeycloakUser_run.sh --context_param sunbird_cassandra_server="{sunbird_cassandra_server}" --context_param sunbird_cassandra_port="{sunbird_cassandra_port}" --context_param sunbird_cassandra_username="{sunbird_cassandra_username}" --context_param sunbird_cassandra_password="{sunbird_cassandra_password}" --context_param sunbird_cassandra_keyspace="{sunbird_cassandra_keyspace}" --context_param sunbird_keycloak_admin_username="{keycloak_admin_username}" --context_param sunbird_keycloak_admin_password="{keycloak_admin_password}" --context_param sunbird_keycloak_base_url="{keycloak_base_url}" --context_param sunbird_keycloak_client_id="{keycloak_client_id}" --context_param sunbird_keycloak_realms="{keycloak_realms}" --context_param sunbird_admin_user_ids="{admin_userIds_path}" --context_param dry_run=false
```

3. The script generates the following logs.

 S.No. | Log File | Description | Example 
-------|-----------|-------------|---------
1 | KeycloakDeleteUserSuccess_timestamp.csv | User Ids which were successfully deleted (This file will be generated only in migration) | KeycloakDeleteUserSuccess_1554113623396.csv
2 | KeycloakDeleteUserFailue_timestamp.csv | User Ids for which deletion failed (This file will be generated only in migration) | KeycloakDeleteUserFailue_1554113623396.csv 
3 | KeycloakUserNotFound.csv | UserIds which were not found in keycloak | KeycloakUserNotFound.csv
