developer-docs/installation/developer_installation.md, before:

---
type: landing
directory: developer-docs/installation
title: Developer Installation
page_title: Developer Installation
description: Installing the Sunbird portal or web application
published: true
allowSearch: true
---


## Overview

This page provides information for you to install & run a Sunbird instance on your laptop or desktop. The intent is to give you a look and feel of some of the features of Sunbird, be able to tweak around with the front-end code. This developer installation of Sunbird application and the cloud APIs used therein, are not for intended for production purposes.

>The Sunbird developer installation can be best viewed via the Google Chrome browser. Although, other browsers may be used, but some pages might not render correctly.

Before installing Sunbird on your laptop or desktop, ensure that the you have the necessary resources and compliant target systems.


## Intended Audience

The intended audience of this document is a person who is familiar with installing, configuring & deploying nodejs based open-source software and has some systems administration experience.


## Prerequisites

1. **Software dependencies**: please install the following software dependencies
   * [node](https://nodejs.org/en/download/) - install the latest release of 8.11.2 LTS series
   * [nodemon](https://www.npmjs.com/package/nodemon) - 
   * [git](https://git-scm.com/downloads) - 
   * gulp - This needs to be installed via npm which gets installed when nodejs is installed

1. **API Keys**
   * The Sunbird developer instance is powered by cloud hosted Sunbird APIs, which require an API key. To get an API key, please submit an [API Key Request](https://goo.gl/forms/2tRDfLlbJ2IgjWgA2). In the form, please add a few words about your team and what brings you you to Sunbird. Please excuse us, it may occasionally take a couple of business days (India time) to send you the API key.


## System requirements

To install Sunbird, ensure that your laptop or desktop has the following minimum system requirements:

- Operating System: Ubuntu Linux 16.04 or later, Mac OS X 10.0 and above, or Windows 7 and above
- RAM: > 1.5GB
- CPU: 2 cores (> 2 GHz/core)


## Components installed

Installing Sunbird requires two primary software components:
- Portal or web application
- Services stack or the backend API interface

In this version, we'll install the portal web application and use the cloud-hosted services stack


## Test the dependency versions


## Set up the Application

These instructions will install the v1.9 version of the Sunbird application. Code examples, shown here are Linux based (should not differ when executed on Windows(r)). If there is any impediment using Windows(r) commandline shell or PowerShell, then you might want to try using Cygwin to perform the Sunbird developer install.

1. Launch a commandline terminal.

1. Ensure that the system PATH variable points to paths where `git`, `node`, `nodemon` and `gulp` are located. If for some reason you are unable to find an executable by the name of node, then try nodejs instead.

1. Change directory into the folder which you've designated as the top level folder of the Sunbird application.

1. Clone the Sunbird portal github repository

        git clone https://github.com/project-sunbird/sunbird-portal.git

1. Checkout the files tagged with v1.9

        cd sunbird-portal
        git checkout tags/v1.9 -b 1.9

1. Build the nodejs packages that are required by the Sunbird application.

        cd sunbird-portal/src/app
        npm install
        cd sunbird-portal/src/app/client
        npm install
        cd ..

1. Configure the following environment variables

        +---------------------------+---------+-----------+
        | Environment Variable Name |  Value  | Data Type |
        |---------------------------|---------|-----------|
        |  sunbird_environment      | local   |   string  |
        |  sunbird_instance         | sunbird |   string  |
        |  sunbird_default_channel  | sunbird |   string  |
        |  sunbird_default_tenant   | sunbird |   string  |
        +---------------------------+---------+-----------+


## Configuring the services stack

Edit the file `sunbird-portal/src/helpers/environmentVariablesHelper.js` and ensure that the following tokens are set to the values as indicated. Enclose all string values within double quotation marks.

|            Token            |                   Value                              | Data Type |
|-----------------------------|------------------------------------------------------|-----------|
| DEFAULT_CHANNEL             | sunbird                                              | string    |
| LEARNER_URL                 | https://staging.open-sunbird.org/api/                |  string   |
| CONTENT_URL                 | https://staging.open-sunbird.org/api/                |  string   |
| CONTENT_PROXY_URL           | https://staging.open-sunbird.org                     |  string   |
| PORTAL_REALM                | sunbird                                              |  string   |
| PORTAL_AUTH_SERVER_URL      | https://staging.open-sunbird.org/auth                |  string   |
| PORTAL_AUTH_SERVER_CLIENT   | portal                                               |  string   |
| PORTAL_PORT                 | 3000                                                 |  number   |
| PORTAL_API_AUTH_TOKEN       | (The API key you received from your API key request) |  string   |
| PORTAL_ECHO_API_URL         | (empty string)                                       |  string   |
| ANDROID_APP_URL             | http://www.sunbird.org                               |  string   |
| CONTENT_CHANNEL_FILTER_TYPE | all &#124; self                                      |  string   |
| LEARNER_URL                 | https://staging.open-sunbird.org/api/                |  string   |
| TELEMETRY_SERVICE_LOCAL_URL | https://staging.open-sunbird.org/api/data/           |  string   |


## Run the Application

1. Download the content editors

        gulp download:editors

1. Update the Sunbird application with the modified config file values.

        cd sunbird-portal/src/app/client
        nodemon

Wait till you see something like this, before going to the next step.

        [nodemon] clean exit - waiting for changes before restart

1. Open another commmandline window and run the application server.

    Populate these environment variables (again)

        +---------------------------+---------+-----------+
        | Environment Variable Name |  Value  | Data Type |
        |---------------------------|---------|-----------|
        |  sunbird_environment      | local   |   string  |
        |  sunbird_instance         | sunbird |   string  |
        |  sunbird_default_channel  | sunbird |   string  |
        |  sunbird_default_tenant   | sunbird |   string  |
        +---------------------------+---------+-----------+

            cd sunbird-portal/src/app
            node server.js


    The initialization of these environmental variables can take place in a common place - like in the .bashrc file on Linux.

1. Launch the Google Chrome browser and navigate to

        http://localhost:3000

## Login into the Sunbird portal

After successfully installing Sunbird, use any of the following user IDs to explore Sunbird's workflows. Each user ID corresponds to a specific role.


| User ID | Role |  |
|---|---|---|
| adopterorgadmin@adopter | Org administrator |  |
| adoptercreator@adopter | Content creator  |  |
| adopterreviewer@adopter | Content reviewer |  |
| adopterbookcreator@adopter | Boook creator |  |
| adopterbookreviewer@adopter | Book reviewer |  |
| adopterflagreviewer@adopter | Flag reviewer |  |
| adoptercoursementor@adopter | Course mentor |  |

* For information on user roles, refer to [Types of Users](pages/features-documentation/userrole)

Commit message:

Updated note in Developer installation doc

developer-docs/installation/developer_installation.md, after:

---
type: landing
directory: developer-docs/installation
title: Developer Installation
page_title: Developer Installation
description: Installing the Sunbird portal or web application
published: true
allowSearch: true
---


## Overview

This page provides information for you to install & run a Sunbird instance on your laptop or desktop. The intent is to give you a look and feel of some of the features of Sunbird, be able to tweak around with the front-end code. This developer installation of Sunbird application and the cloud APIs used therein, are not for intended for production purposes.

>The Sunbird developer installation can be best viewed via the Google Chrome browser. Although, other browsers may be used, but some pages might not render correctly.

Before installing Sunbird on your laptop or desktop, ensure that the you have the necessary resources and compliant target systems.

> Developer installation is only for the web application and cannot be installed on mobile application


## Intended Audience

The intended audience of this document is a person who is familiar with installing, configuring & deploying nodejs based open-source software and has some systems administration experience.


## Prerequisites

1. **Software dependencies**: please install the following software dependencies
   * [node](https://nodejs.org/en/download/) - install the latest release of 8.11.2 LTS series
   * [nodemon](https://www.npmjs.com/package/nodemon) - 
   * [git](https://git-scm.com/downloads) - 
   * gulp - This needs to be installed via npm which gets installed when nodejs is installed

1. **API Keys**
   * The Sunbird developer instance is powered by cloud hosted Sunbird APIs, which require an API key. To get an API key, please submit an [API Key Request](https://goo.gl/forms/2tRDfLlbJ2IgjWgA2). In the form, please add a few words about your team and what brings you you to Sunbird. Please excuse us, it may occasionally take a couple of business days (India time) to send you the API key.


## System requirements

To install Sunbird, ensure that your laptop or desktop has the following minimum system requirements:

- Operating System: Ubuntu Linux 16.04 or later, Mac OS X 10.0 and above, or Windows 7 and above
- RAM: > 1.5GB
- CPU: 2 cores (> 2 GHz/core)


## Components installed

Installing Sunbird requires two primary software components:
- Portal or web application
- Services stack or the backend API interface

In this version, we'll install the portal web application and use the cloud-hosted services stack


## Test the dependency versions


## Set up the Application

These instructions will install the v1.9 version of the Sunbird application. Code examples, shown here are Linux based (should not differ when executed on Windows(r)). If there is any impediment using Windows(r) commandline shell or PowerShell, then you might want to try using Cygwin to perform the Sunbird developer install.

1. Launch a commandline terminal.

1. Ensure that the system PATH variable points to paths where `git`, `node`, `nodemon` and `gulp` are located. If for some reason you are unable to find an executable by the name of node, then try nodejs instead.

1. Change directory into the folder which you've designated as the top level folder of the Sunbird application.

1. Clone the Sunbird portal github repository

        git clone https://github.com/project-sunbird/sunbird-portal.git

1. Checkout the files tagged with v1.9

        cd sunbird-portal
        git checkout tags/v1.9 -b 1.9

1. Build the nodejs packages that are required by the Sunbird application.

        cd sunbird-portal/src/app
        npm install
        cd sunbird-portal/src/app/client
        npm install
        cd ..

1. Configure the following environment variables

        +---------------------------+---------+-----------+
        | Environment Variable Name |  Value  | Data Type |
        |---------------------------|---------|-----------|
        |  sunbird_environment      | local   |   string  |
        |  sunbird_instance         | sunbird |   string  |
        |  sunbird_default_channel  | sunbird |   string  |
        |  sunbird_default_tenant   | sunbird |   string  |
        +---------------------------+---------+-----------+


## Configuring the services stack

Edit the file `sunbird-portal/src/helpers/environmentVariablesHelper.js` and ensure that the following tokens are set to the values as indicated. Enclose all string values within double quotation marks.

|            Token            |                   Value                              | Data Type |
|-----------------------------|------------------------------------------------------|-----------|
| DEFAULT_CHANNEL             | sunbird                                              | string    |
| LEARNER_URL                 | https://staging.open-sunbird.org/api/                |  string   |
| CONTENT_URL                 | https://staging.open-sunbird.org/api/                |  string   |
| CONTENT_PROXY_URL           | https://staging.open-sunbird.org                     |  string   |
| PORTAL_REALM                | sunbird                                              |  string   |
| PORTAL_AUTH_SERVER_URL      | https://staging.open-sunbird.org/auth                |  string   |
| PORTAL_AUTH_SERVER_CLIENT   | portal                                               |  string   |
| PORTAL_PORT                 | 3000                                                 |  number   |
| PORTAL_API_AUTH_TOKEN       | (The API key you received from your API key request) |  string   |
| PORTAL_ECHO_API_URL         | (empty string)                                       |  string   |
| ANDROID_APP_URL             | http://www.sunbird.org                               |  string   |
| CONTENT_CHANNEL_FILTER_TYPE | all &#124; self                                      |  string   |
| LEARNER_URL                 | https://staging.open-sunbird.org/api/                |  string   |
| TELEMETRY_SERVICE_LOCAL_URL | https://staging.open-sunbird.org/api/data/           |  string   |


## Run the Application

1. Download the content editors

        gulp download:editors

1. Update the Sunbird application with the modified config file values.

        cd sunbird-portal/src/app/client
        nodemon

Wait till you see something like this, before going to the next step.

        [nodemon] clean exit - waiting for changes before restart

1. Open another commmandline window and run the application server.

    Populate these environment variables (again)

        +---------------------------+---------+-----------+
        | Environment Variable Name |  Value  | Data Type |
        |---------------------------|---------|-----------|
        |  sunbird_environment      | local   |   string  |
        |  sunbird_instance         | sunbird |   string  |
        |  sunbird_default_channel  | sunbird |   string  |
        |  sunbird_default_tenant   | sunbird |   string  |
        +---------------------------+---------+-----------+

            cd sunbird-portal/src/app
            node server.js


    The initialization of these environmental variables can take place in a common place - like in the .bashrc file on Linux.

1. Launch the Google Chrome browser and navigate to

        http://localhost:3000

## Login into the Sunbird portal

After successfully installing Sunbird, use any of the following user IDs to explore Sunbird's workflows. Each user ID corresponds to a specific role.


| User ID | Role |  |
|---|---|---|
| adopterorgadmin@adopter | Org administrator |  |
| adoptercreator@adopter | Content creator  |  |
| adopterreviewer@adopter | Content reviewer |  |
| adopterbookcreator@adopter | Boook creator |  |
| adopterbookreviewer@adopter | Book reviewer |  |
| adopterflagreviewer@adopter | Flag reviewer |  |
| adoptercoursementor@adopter | Course mentor |  |

* For information on user roles, refer to [Types of Users](pages/features-documentation/userrole)
