developer-docs/server-installation/jenkins-setup.md, before:

---
title: Jenkins Setup
page_title: Jenkins Setup
description: Step-by-step instructions to set up the Jenkins server for the Sunbird installation
keywords: Sunbird installation, Jenkins, Setup set up, steps for Jenkins installation
allowSearch: true
---


## Jenkins Setup

Jenkins is used to build, deploy and setup the infrastructure for Sunbird. Almost everything in Sunbird is automated using Jenkins pipelines which integrates with ansible and other tools.

- SSH to the Jenkins server and enter the following commands -

     ```bash
     git clone https://github.com/project-sunbird/sunbird-devops.git
     cd sunbird-devops && git checkout tags/release-3.9.0_RC18 -b release-3.9.0_RC18
     cd deploy/jenkins
     sudo bash jenkins-server-setup.sh
     ```

- Open Jenkins UI in a browser by visiting **JENKINS_IP:8080**

- Enter the initial password and follow the on-screen instructions. Choose **Install suggested plugin** and create an admin user

> Don't run the following until above steps finished

- Run the below commands on Jenkins server -

    ```bash
    sudo bash jenkins-plugins-setup.sh
    cp envOrder.txt.sample envOrder.txt
    vi envOrder.txt
    ```

- Update the environment list as per your requirement in ascending order. For example, if you want to have dev, staging and production environments, your **envOrder.txt** will look like -

    ```bash
    dev=0
    staging=1
    production=2
    ```

- Run the below script on Jenkins server and provide input as required (case sensitive) -

    ```bash
    sudo bash jenkins-jobs-setup.sh
    ```

- Restart jenkins

    ```bash
    sudo service jenkins restart
    ```
- Configure Jenkins
  ```
  sudo su jenkins
  curl -SsL -o ~/jenkins.yaml https://raw.githubusercontent.com/project-sunbird/sunbird-devops/release-3.9.0/deploy/jenkins/jenkins.yaml
  
  # Replace all placeholders ${VALUE} with proper values
  # For example, 
  # username: "${GH_USERNAME}" to  username: "mygithubusername"
  vim ~/jenkins.yaml
  ```

- Run the below commands on Jenkins server -

    ```bash
    mkdir -p /var/lib/jenkins/secrets
    cd /var/lib/jenkins/secrets
    touch deployer_ssh_key vault-pass k8s.yaml
    chmod 600 deployer_ssh_key vault-pass k8s.yaml
    ```

- Copy the contents of your server's private key into `/var/lib/jenkins/secrets/deployer_ssh_key`  

- Copy the kubernetes config file contents into `/var/lib/jenkins/secrets/k8s.yaml`

- If you have encrypted your `secrets.yml` using `ansible-vault`, enter the password to decrypt into `/var/lib/jenkins/secrets/vault-pass`. If you have not encrypted, then enter a random value like **12345**

- Run `sudo visudo` on jenkins server and add the below line -

 ```bash
    jenkins ALL=(ALL) NOPASSWD:ALL
 ```

- Reboot the Jenkins VM (`sudo reboot`)

Commit message:

chore(Jenkins): install CoC plugin
Signed-off-by: Rajesh Rajendran <rjshrjndrn@gmail.com>

developer-docs/server-installation/jenkins-setup.md, after:

---
title: Jenkins Setup
page_title: Jenkins Setup
description: Step-by-step instructions to set up the Jenkins server for the Sunbird installation
keywords: Sunbird installation, Jenkins, Setup set up, steps for Jenkins installation
allowSearch: true
---


## Jenkins Setup

Jenkins is used to build, deploy and setup the infrastructure for Sunbird. Almost everything in Sunbird is automated using Jenkins pipelines which integrates with ansible and other tools.

- SSH to the Jenkins server and enter the following commands -

     ```bash
     git clone https://github.com/project-sunbird/sunbird-devops.git
     cd sunbird-devops && git checkout tags/release-3.9.0_RC18 -b release-3.9.0_RC18
     cd deploy/jenkins
     sudo bash jenkins-server-setup.sh
     ```

- Open Jenkins UI in a browser by visiting **JENKINS_IP:8080**

- Enter the initial password and follow the on-screen instructions. Choose **Install suggested plugin** and create an admin user

- Go to **http://JENKINS_IP:8080/pluginManager/available** -> Search for 'Configuration as Code Plugin' and install the plugin without restart.

> Don't run the following until above steps finished

- Run the below commands on Jenkins server -

    ```bash
    sudo bash jenkins-plugins-setup.sh
    cp envOrder.txt.sample envOrder.txt
    vi envOrder.txt
    ```

- Update the environment list as per your requirement in ascending order. For example, if you want to have dev, staging and production environments, your **envOrder.txt** will look like -

    ```bash
    dev=0
    staging=1
    production=2
    ```

- Run the below script on Jenkins server and provide input as required (case sensitive) -

    ```bash
    sudo bash jenkins-jobs-setup.sh
    ```

- Restart jenkins

    ```bash
    sudo service jenkins restart
    ```
- Configure Jenkins
  ```
  sudo su jenkins
  curl -SsL -o ~/jenkins.yaml https://raw.githubusercontent.com/project-sunbird/sunbird-devops/release-3.9.0/deploy/jenkins/jenkins.yaml
  
  # Replace all placeholders ${VALUE} with proper values
  # For example, 
  # username: "${GH_USERNAME}" to  username: "mygithubusername"
  vim ~/jenkins.yaml
  ```

- Run the below commands on Jenkins server -

    ```bash
    mkdir -p /var/lib/jenkins/secrets
    cd /var/lib/jenkins/secrets
    touch deployer_ssh_key vault-pass k8s.yaml
    chmod 600 deployer_ssh_key vault-pass k8s.yaml
    ```

- Copy the contents of your server's private key into `/var/lib/jenkins/secrets/deployer_ssh_key`  

- Copy the kubernetes config file contents into `/var/lib/jenkins/secrets/k8s.yaml`

- If you have encrypted your `secrets.yml` using `ansible-vault`, enter the password to decrypt into `/var/lib/jenkins/secrets/vault-pass`. If you have not encrypted, then enter a random value like **12345**

- Run `sudo visudo` on jenkins server and add the below line -

 ```bash
    jenkins ALL=(ALL) NOPASSWD:ALL
 ```

- Reboot the Jenkins VM (`sudo reboot`)
