features-documentation/userrole.md, before:

---
title: Types of Users
page_title: Types of Users
description: User Roles and Permission
keywords: 'Admin, System Admin, Org Admin, Instructor, Student, Roles, Permissions'
published: true
allowSearch: true
---

## Overview
On Sunbird, each user type is associated with a user role. The permissions and responsibilities vary for each user role.  
Before users are assigned with appropriate roles, it is important to understand: <br>1. Responsibilities of each user role <br>2. Features accessible to each user role

This section elaborates the various user types and their assocated responsibilites on Sunbird

### User Roles and Respective Responsibilities

|  User Role    | Content Creation | Review, Reject , & Publish | Upload Content | Other Role Specific Responsibilites |
|-------------------|---------------------|---------------------|-------------------------|-----------------|
| An **Organisation Administrator (Org admin)** manages the overall functioning and upkeep of the  organisation, and also define and manages user roles and permissions |       No       |       No       |  No | ✔️   <a href="features-documentation/#adminrole_matrix"> read more</a>
| A **System Administrator (Sys admin)** manages installation, configuration and operation of the system |       No       |       No       |  No | ✔️   <a href="features-documentation/#adminrole_matrix"> read more</a>
| A **Course Mentor** guides and instructs learners on how to undertake a course. They create batches of users to enrol for a course and ensure completion of a course within a stipulated time |       No       |       No       |  No | ✔️   <a href="features-documentation/userrole/#role-specific-responsibilites"> read more</a>~~       
| A **Content Reviewer** assesses  created content within prescribed guidelines | No | ✔️  | ✔️  | No 
| A **Teacher Badge Issuer** is responsible for assigning badges to teachers based on the discretion of the concerned organization | No | No | No | ✔️  <a href="features-documentation/userrole/#role-specific-responsibilites"> read more</a>
| A **Book Creator** curates and compiles books. Registered users become book creators when book creation rights are assigned to them | ✔️  (Only Books) | No | No | No 
|  A **Book Reviewer** assesses books within defined and prescribed guidelines| No | ✔️  (Only Books) | No | No
|A **Public** user is any user with registered credentials | No | No | No | ✔️  <a href="features-documentation/userrole/#role-specific-responsibilites"> read more</a>
| An **Announcement Sender** creates and sends announcements. The Announcement feature allows to send system wide messages to a target audience| No | No | No | ✔️  <a href="features-documentation/userrole/#role-specific-responsibilites"> read more</a>
| A **Content Creator** is a registered user with permission to create content | ✔️ (Collection, Course, Study Material, Lesson Plan) | No | No | No
| A **Flag Reviewer** assesses flagged content within prescribed guidelines | No | ✔️ (Only flagged content) | No | No

### User Interface for Different User Roles

The User Interface (UI) differs for each Sunbird user role. The UI elements vary based on the rights assigned to users.

|User Role |Profile|Workspace|To Do (Home Page)|Courses |Library|
|-------------------|----------------|----------------|----------------|----------------------------|------------------------|
|Content Creator, Content Reviewer, Flag Reviewer & Course Mentor |✔️ |✔️ |✔️ |✔️  |✔️ |
|Book Creator & Book Reviewer |✔️|✔️|✔️|✔️|✔️|
|Teacher Badge Issuer |✔️|No|✔️|✔️|✔️|
|Announcement Sender|✔️|No|No|No |No|
|Public |✔️|No|✔️|✔️|✔️|

### Role Specific Responsibilites

<br>1. <b>Course Mentor</b>: The chief responsibilites of a course mentor are: <br>&emsp;a) Create, edit, and delete batches <br>&emsp;b) Add mentors and participants
<br>2. <b>Teacher Badge Issuer</b>: Organization administrators create badges and assign users to issue this badge to teachers. A user with teacher badge issuer rights issues these created badges to eligible teachers
<br>3. <b>Public</b>: A public user can only view and consume content on Sunbird. A public user cannot create, curate, review , upload or publish content
<br>4. <b>Announcement Sender</b>:  An announcement sender, on Sundird, creates and sends announcements based on organizational requirements

Commit message:

update dev docs & features docs in 1.9

features-documentation/userrole.md, after:

---
type: landing
directory: features-documentation
title: Types of Users
page_title: Types of Users
description: User Roles and Permission
keywords: 'Admin, System Admin, Org Admin, Instructor, Student, Roles, Permissions'
published: true
allowSearch: true
---

## Overview
On Sunbird, each user type is associated with a user role. The permissions and responsibilities vary for each user role.  
Before users are assigned with appropriate roles, it is important to understand: <br>1. Responsibilities of each user role <br>2. Features accessible to each user role

This section elaborates the various user types and their assocated responsibilites on Sunbird

### User Roles and Respective Responsibilities

|  User Role    | Content Creation | Review, Reject , & Publish | Upload Content | Other Role Specific Responsibilites |
|-------------------|---------------------|---------------------|-------------------------|-----------------|
| A **Course Mentor** guides and instructs learners on how to undertake a course. They create batches of users to enrol for a course and ensure completion of a course within a stipulated time |       No       |       No       |  No | ✔️   <a href="features-documentation/userrole/#role-specific-responsibilites"> read more</a>       
| A **Content Reviewer** assesses  created content within prescribed guidelines | No | ✔️  | ✔️  | No 
| A **Teacher Badge Issuer** is responsible for assigning badges to teachers based on the discretion of the concerned organization | No | No | No | ✔️  <a href="features-documentation/userrole/#role-specific-responsibilites"> read more</a>
| A **Book Creator** curates and compiles books. Registered users become book creators when book creation rights are assigned to them | ✔️  (Only Books) | No | No | No 
|  A **Book Reviewer** assesses books within defined and prescribed guidelines| No | ✔️  (Only Books) | No | No
|A **Public** user is any user with registered credentials | No | No | No | ✔️  <a href="features-documentation/userrole/#role-specific-responsibilites"> read more</a>
| An **Announcement Sender** creates and sends announcements. The Announcement feature allows to send system wide messages to a target audience| No | No | No | ✔️  <a href="features-documentation/userrole/#role-specific-responsibilites"> read more</a>
| A **Content Creator** is a registered user with permission to create content | ✔️ (Collection, Course, Study Material, Lesson Plan) | No | No | No
| A **Flag Reviewer** assesses flagged content within prescribed guidelines | No | ✔️ (Only flagged content) | No | No

### User Interface for Different User Roles

The User Interface (UI) differs for each Sunbird user role. The UI elements vary based on the rights assigned to users.

|User Role |Profile|Workspace|To Do (Home Page)|Courses |Library|
|-------------------|----------------|----------------|----------------|----------------------------|------------------------|
|Content Creator, Content Reviewer, Flag Reviewer & Course Mentor |✔️ |✔️ |✔️ |✔️  |✔️ |
|Book Creator & Book Reviewer |✔️|✔️|✔️|✔️|✔️|
|Teacher Badge Issuer |✔️|No|✔️|✔️|✔️|
|Announcement Sender|✔️|No|No|No |No|
|Public |✔️|No|✔️|✔️|✔️|

### Role Specific Responsibilites

<br>1. <b>Course Mentor</b>: The chief responsibilites of a course mentor are: <br>&emsp;a) Create, edit, and delete batches <br>&emsp;b) Add mentors and participants
<br>2. <b>Teacher Badge Issuer</b>: Organization administrators create badges and assign users to issue this badge to teachers. A user with teacher badge issuer rights issues these created badges to eligible teachers
<br>3. <b>Public</b>: A public user can only view and consume content on Sunbird. A public user cannot create, curate, review , upload or publish content
<br>4. <b>Announcement Sender</b>:  An announcement sender, on Sundird, creates and sends announcements based on organizational requirements
